How does one remember
all of these elements?
>> Yeah,
how does one remember all these elements?
It's a great question.
And of course,
practice is the best way to use it.
Just like when you learn a new vocabulary
word in English, or your native language,
then you have to start using it in
a sentence and using it more and
more in order to remember it.
So it's the ones that we tend to
remember that are the ones that we use.
So that is why I encourage you to do
something like in your weekly staff
meeting, or your weekly standup,
rotate around the room.
Have somebody different every
time present a new element.
And it can be literally a two-minute
presentation, this is the element, this is
what it does, here's how, some sample
content where we might use this element.
And maybe periodically, maybe every month,
you could start reviewing those
particular types of elements.
You could make a little code pen.
You could write yourself references for
quick lookup inside of
your development team.
So really, it's just a matter of
making a little bit of effort.
Once you get into the habit of thinking
about what is the right element
to markup this content, you'll find
that it starts to come naturally,
just like anything else
that you do in programming.
Yeah, Mark?
>> Will you talk about the meta elements
that we include in our webpage,
specifically the use of the Open Graph,
OG meta elements?
>> Yeah, I wasn't gonna talk
about the meta elements today,
mostly because I have
an enormous amount to cover.
But if you take a look at Facebook as
a page for this, it's ogp.me, I believe.
It's opengraphprotocol.me is the website.
And it has a reference for
all of those meta elements,
and how you would use the various
kinds of Open Graph protocol
markup with the meta elements for
that kind of thing.
So have a look there.
>> Why were semantic tags introduced, and
how do browsers decipher
the semantic meaning of any tag?
>> Okay, so if we go back to 1990,
right, the whole purpose of
the Internet at that point in time,
we had the Iron Curtain up in Europe.
We had a CERN, the Institute for
Physics there in Switzerland,
wanted to share their scientific papers
with Soviet scientists and so forth.
This is a cause near and dear to my heart.
I worked in a science lab in 1992, and
I wound up pulling paper
copies of research papers,
putting them in envelopes and mailing
them to researchers all over the world.
That's how we did it before the Internet.
And so one of the big problems that
the web was designed to solve was to allow
scientists to share their work online.
And as a result, they needed a way.
Long before things like
CSS were conceived of,
we needed a way to make
a scientific paper online.
So what are the kinds of things
that we would need to do that?
We need some headings, make things big.
This is the title, right?
We need some paragraphs.
We need some tables to share data.
We need a way to put in Images into
the page to share our various graphs, and
photos, and so
forth from a scientific paper.
And so that was the original source
of those elements, when, basically,
when HTML had the display associated
with it in the bad old days in the 90s.
Later, we split off the whole look
of it once the web started to
get more commercialized,
and people were concerned about how it
looked, cuz it was really not pretty.
And so then that's where we
went down the road for the CSS.
But semantic HTML continues to be
important, because the browser, for
example, the user agent, will have some
styles associated with it by default.
They may help you in styling the page.
And you may also, by building in
those particular semantic elements,
you will be able to do more with
accessibility right out of the box.
There's so
much less you have to retro engineer.
And of course, accessibility is
becoming increasingly important.
>> How do you know which accessibility
properties to use in your HTML?
It depends on what
you're trying to convey.
It depends on what your
screen readers are doing, and
it depends what your accessibility
professionals are going to tell you.
If you start with semantic markup,
you're gonna get a lot of the way there.
And then on top of that,
you can add whatever additional roles, and
ARIA elements, and anything else that's
required for accessibility purposes.
So Frontend Masters has
a course on accessibility.
I would encourage you to check it out.
Jon Kuperman's accessibility version
two right here at Frontend Masters,
it's part of your subscription.
So take a look at that, and that will
drill into that into much more detail.
I am not an accessibility professional,
and
so I know broadly speaking
what needs to be done on that.
But I'm not an expert in that area, I'm
not an expert in how screen readers work.
>> Will learning how to use
these HTML elements, and
possibly making things more
dynamic reduce my JavaScript?
>> Yeah.
>> Amount of JavaScript?
>> Yeah, how can this help reduce
your amount of JavaScript?
Let's just leave that as it will,
and that is what today is all about.
So you're gonna see how we can really
start to reduce amounts of code with good
markup and with good CSS.